Lore: The Red Plague
The Red Plague is a crystalized Virus controlled by the main enemy/villain in the story, The Silver Emperor
The Virus can be spread in mostly 3 ways
Bite, scratch or harm done by an infected to non infected
Consuming the crystal
Having  skin contact and breaking said skin on a crystal, forming small crystal sprouts on the infected
The Virus is indeed quite a terrifying foe, able to wipe out and transform villages into small crystalized nests, or even castles and forts into larger nests
The Red Plague does have it's own small nests called The Red ADen, bigger nests are called The Red Infestation
These nests are formed with crystals and limbs or bodies of living oranisms, creating new types of abominations to add in there ranks, basically a breeding ground of nightmares
Red Dens usually are quite easy to destroy, but Red Infestations does have some sort of queen like creature living within them, making it a terrifying boss to fight
(note ill go over different infection/mutant types and full on crystal abominations later)
Some landmarks of special types of full functional nests are, The Red Heart, Jackson's Riverside, Star Fort, Devil's Consumption and The Red Eye 
(note ill be going over full detail so far i have on nests later) 
The virus takes time depending on where the person have been infected, if consumed a crystal its usually 3-5 minutes, if bit in the torso or arm region it usually takes 5 minutes, if bit on the neck or head it takes 1 minute, if on the leg it takes 7 minutes
The infection rate varies as well on the person and there body/weight, also affecting the creature outcome
Current Lore on the Red Plague, will add more if there is an Update
Common Infected (Corrupted/Sinners)
These common infected do still resemble a humanoid being, but depending on bite spot and other factors there will be red crystals growing out of there skin and body, some infected even have there arms fully replaced by the crystal
There highly aggressive, attracted to loud noises and basically anything living, they do have a pack mentality a bit and sometimes do stray to hunt alone
They are quite dumb . .but some do display some intellect like using a weapon they had before death . .but barely able to use it .. just swing it
They are quite easy to kill, the fastest way is to aim for the head, but you can also kill them like a normal human being, 
But in packs they are indeed a force to be reckon with, they still can sprint and try to overrun there victims
Second Varient of Common Infected (Corrupted/Sinner) Called Sinners
Sinners are common infected but instead have a black tainted crystal instead of red .. these infected aare the same like Corrupted but actually quite stronger, can take a beating to the head and as well display a bit more intellect, using more weapons or items than there hands
Sinner's can take more of a beating . .and can as well be dangerous to take .. fighting a pack of sinner's is extremely difficult . .
they look the same as the Corrupted but just black crystals instead of red
Special Infected (Siege Beast/Abomination) 
These creature's are the basic tanks/giant creature's of the Red Plague
There bodies are fused of living tissue of multiple organisms like humans or animals and as well the crystal
They have two giant hulking arms they use to walk, as there old small legs can't carry there massive weight, the head and body is basically consumedi n crystal, but the mouth has extended and jawline, forming a giant gaping mouth, as the eye;s are mostly covered in crystal
Due to being partially blind, it can be easily mislead by sound which it uses a lot, but it can indeed see decently
The Abomination is a formadible foe and should be taken with the greatest caution
Second Varient of Abomination (The Siege Beast)
Black crystals cover the beast of a creature . .still resembling the abomination . .but quite a few things changed
Deep within the Labs of the White Citadel . . they modified the creature into a siege beast capable of taking down gates and being controlled by a human
These creature's are covered in metal plating, being rode by a Horde Master,  a human from The iron Legion capable of riding one without dying and help control small packs of common infected
Some siege Beasts are outfitted with a small ballista or catapult for taking down walls or causing damage, it;s usually a 50 chance it won't have a weapon or will
On it's front platings they also added large iron claws for ravaging anything . .it's sheer strengh mixed with a sharp edge makes it armor piercing 
The Siege Beast is usually seen in sieges and not really out in the open . .sometimes guarding important locations for the Silver Emperor
Special Infected (Blood Hound/Ravager) 
These creature's are the devastating quick attack monsters of the red plague
Wild Wolves and tamed wolves of the northern lands, These creature's are bulked up with the crystal and much bigger than they were before
 There jaws somewhat modified to be quite a more .. painful grab/bite, able to pierce light and medium sized armor quite easily
 These Monster's are more common in the northern lands but can be seen wandering into the southern lands when called by there Ravager's, there old pack leaders
 Due to the crystals and there body mutations they are less fast than there previous form of a normal wolf, but do not underestimate there pounce or dashs
 Second Varient of the Blood Hound (Ravager)
 The old pack leader's now infected with the black tainted crystals of the red plaguye
 These Pack Wolves can command/support there blood hound followers, and summon more to the battlefield if needed
 There quite more large and more mutated with the crystal on there fur and body . .making them slower but deadlier in combat, there jaws and teeth able to to pierce more heavier armor
 Ravager's will also give andreline rushs or .. hype there loyal blood hounds into becoming more deadly and fast
 Special Infected (Gladiator/Champion)
The Gladiator was once a proud warrior of the north . .now tainted and consumed by the red plague .. his service's are in new use
His body is actually lightly covered in the black crystal . .most of the black crystal for unknown reasons still . . seemed to grow around the head .. but not blinding him, growing around the torso, neck and head .. and bit of patchs on the legs
The Gladiator is a full on aggressive monster .. a tall bulky humanoid opponent for anyone unlucky to fight it
usually using a large Northern war axe . wearing light leather armor allowing him to be mobility quite fast . . and his special weapon . .a specialized hook used for grappling his opponents that stray to far from him . .making them bleed with the sharp hook as punishment for being a coward
It's main goal for some reason is to target the strongest warrior agmonst a group . .or target a leader agmonst a enemy group . . Challenging there authority head on to break morale
Second Varient of the Gladiator (Champion) (Boss/mini boss)
The Champion is the strongest and most terrifying gladiator among his brethern of mutants
A tall bulky monster .. the black crystal seemed to have grown more on him, giving him a growth spurt and increased muscle mass . .some rumors say it is  . .wel lonce was a great northern general nicknamed The Frozen Ram, The Northern Clans have not denied or accepted these claims
The grand Warrior uses a special hook . .a mix of spikes and extra hooks added onto it into a devilish grapple hook . . bringing enemies toward him . .and ripping through there armor and skin alike, and with his increased muscle mass and strengh to toss around his opponent's with the hook like pebbles
With more bulky leather armor and crystal acting as a weird type of armor . .he's slower than all of his brethern . .but with that he won't die that easily . .unlike them
The Champion is rumored to be in the grand nest of The Red heart . . Guarding one of the wicked leaders of the Silver Emperor's Finest . .The Claw
Special Infected (The Gate Guardian) (Boss of Jackson's Riverside)
The first prototype of the Jackson;s Riverside Nest, a giant crystalized crab  . .covered in the red crystals  . .made by the relic called Enconthro, Speeding it's growth size and life . .and infecting it with the crystal . .forming in this behemoth of a beast
It's modified with armored plating and a large ballista on it's back, forming into a siege beast and that's what it purpose in life is
Guarding the nest from the outside invaders so other prototypes may have succes as the mutant did, the creature is a towering defender of it's home
Taking it will require serious amount of manpower . .and taking out the nest .. forget about it with that beast being there
